
Datasets

Data about antibiotics concentrations in environmental matrices was collected from Zhang et al (ref) and (other sources). Clinical antibiotics resistance data was gathered from CARSS (ref). Socioeconomic data at province level was taken from the 2024 Statistical Yearbook (ref)


Data Curation

Environmental antibiotics datasets were harmonized, accounting for misspelled and alternatively spelled drug names. Concentration units were standardized to "ng/L" for water and "μg/kg dw" for solid samples. Data entries where no antibiotic concentration was reported, or all measurements for a province/matrix/antibiotic were zero were removed (file clean_environmental_antibiotics_data.R).
The clinical antibiotics and statistical yearbook datasets were curated in a similar way,  taking care to use consistent vocabulary for chemically identical drugs across all datasets (files clean_carss.R, clean_yearbook.R).
To enable downstream statistical analyses, NA measurements were removed from all datasets. Zero values (being problematic for log transformations) were replaced with an estimated lower limit of detection (lowest non-zero reported value for the antibiotic / 2). Antibiotics groups and province names were harmonized in separate files (create_antibiotics_groups.R, create_province_groups.R).

Data Wrangling

To enable comparisons between provinces, a dataset was created with a single representative value per province, matrix, and antibiotic. First, we only used mean antibiotics concentrations reported by the original studies (as opposed to maxima). Among all the mean values in a province/matrix/antibiotic, the median value was chosen to represent the province, to avoid skewing the data due to extreme values measured at atypical hotspot sites (file env_abx_per_province.R).
per-province environmental antibiotics measurements were then combines with (also per-province) antibiotic resistance data to create a combined dataset with province-specific antibiotics measurements (clinical resistance of 5 bacterial species, and concentrations in 5 environmental matrices). For comparison between provinces, a subset of 11 antibiotics were considered that were present in both clinical and environmental data. To ensure statistical robustness in province-to-province comparisons, we retained only the metrics that were measured in at least n = 10 provinces. For the resulting 877 province-specific records of 32 clinical and environmental metrics, the all-china mean was calculated as well as the fold-change for each province relative to the all-china mean (file create_china_metrics.R).

PCA and K-means Clustering of Provinces

The 877 province-specific records were log10 transformed because antibiotics concentrtions may differ by orders of magnitude. To enable analysis across different units, all numerical values were scaled to z-scores centered around the mean of 0. These standardized values served as a proxy of the clinical and environmental burden as measured by each metric. Positive z-scores indicate higher severity, or a province doing "worse" than China average, and negative z-scores indicate lower severity or a province doing "better" than China average.
A z-score matrix of 31 provinces x 32 metrics was generated, and any gaps were filled with 0 (i.e. the z-score mean). PCA analysis was performed using stats::prcomp R package. K-means clustering was performed with stats::kmeans on 2-4 centers. For subsequent analtsis k=3 clusters were used.








